## Ross - Schoenberg

Arnold Schoenberg was clasically self-trained as a child, absorbing most
of the material from encyclopedias or listening to other performances.
He worked various musical jobs: conducting a choir, orchestrating
operettas,writing sentimental songs. In 1901, he became the musical
director for the Buntes Theater but returned to Vienna to recruit pupils
in composition.

Schoenberg early music had a luxurious tone, although there are some
unexplained dissonances and chords that fail to resolve. Mahler and
Strauss both found Schoenberg's music innovational and "the music of the
future".

Schoenberg let poetry guide his music. His most crucial literary
encounter was with Stefan George's poetry, particularly the sheer
density of the poet's imagery that did not permit easy access, but was
rather a labryinth of sensual secrets.

Schoenberg voyage to the atonal world was set to George's *Year of the
Soul* collection (concerned with an intense scene of farewell). Most of
piece is not in the home key in B minor and it's supposed that this
piece was related to Schoenberg bidding farewell to Mahler.

Schoenberg mental stability faltered when one of his circle men, Richard
Gerstl, committed suicide after Schoenberg found out he was having an
affair with his wife. Afterwards, Schoenberg struggled with thoughts of
suicide and his music slowly transitioned to the style we are most
familiar with; his Second Quartet's first movement was written in a
late-Romantic style whereas the second movement was a hallucinatory
Scherzo. In the last 2 movements, a soprano joins the string players,
singing George poems that describe emotions of grief and agony

As Mahler and Strauss were both leaving the world, Schoenberg entered a
creative frenzy, composing several works
